Hey Amit,

OK, here is the new design I've been working on. Could you have a look
through "probabilistic_dragons_new_experiment_GORUNS_FODURS.pdf" and
let me know what you think, in terms of how hard you think it would be
to implement?

I have also emailed Richard, but haven't heard back. I think if we
could all work together and he could give us implementation tips,
since he knows PsychoPy much better, that would be best -- but he's
really busy, so we shouldn't count on it. If he does manage to help
with programming, we can all divvy up who does what. (e.g. we still
need to figure out the exact economic incentives in the economic
choice task).


Basically, what we want are 2 clear predictors: predictor 1 predicts
success (correct classification) 85% of the time. Predictor 2 predicts
success 65% of the time.  Since basing probabilities on noisy stimuli
/correct performance under different levels of perceptual difficulty
does not seem to work, why don't we precisely control probabilities
via probabilistic feedback on identical stimuli which are category A
85% of the time and category B 15% of the time; likewise, a second
stimulus is category B 65% of the time, and category A 35% of the
time.

I attach:

- 1 pdf that gives you an idea of the new visual, auditory, and
  cognitive ("semantic") blocks. Please flip through the pdf slides to
  get an idea of the stimuli and trial
  structure. (probabilistic_dragons_new_experiment_GORUNS_FODURS.pdf)

- stimuli (visual, auditory; words; positive and negative feedback).

- list of things that need to be made variables
  (probabilistic_design.rtf)

* We are keeping the block structure, with each block containing
  visual only, auditory only, and cognitive only trials. If you could
  put the 3 blocks together into a random order, so we randomize it
  for each subject, that would be great. The training goes on until
  subject has learned (maximum 1000 trials per modality; learning
  criterion is 200 sequential trials of picking the most likely
  category).

* new experiment is this: There are 2 types of dragon (A and B, or
"GORUNS" and "FODURS"). There are: 2 visual stimuli (red egg and blue
egg, i.e. cue1 and cue2); 2 sounds (dragon roar 1 and dragon roar 2);
2 words ("herbivore" and "carnivore").  Subjects learn to categorize
probabilistically:

- whether the red egg and blue egg are more likely a Gorun or Fodur
- egg; whether sound 1 and sound 2 are more likely a Gorun or Fodur
- sound; whether a carnivore is more likely to be a Gorun or Fodur and
- whether an herbivore is more likely a Gorun or Fodur.

Trial structure for TRAINING TASK (see attached pdf):

VISUAL:

1. Show red or blue egg for 1000 ms (make this a variable, so we can
change it; keep central parameters file).  2. choice screen with Gorun
picture to the left of fixation and Fodur picture to the right of
fixation. Subjects indicate either Left or Right (i.e. they guess
whether the egg is a Gorun or Fodur egg). [ NO TIME LIMIT HERE -- NEXT
SCREEN APPEARS ONLY AFTER SUBJECT PRESSES THE LEFT OR RIGHT
BUTTON. For invalid button, display INVALID RESPONSE ] 3. Subject
presses Left or Right arrow button; that stimulus is "highlighted"
(see pdf). 300 ms (?).  4. Feedback screen for 500 ms: either a green
check mark or a red cross. Feedback is probabilistic: - Red egg = 85%
Gorun 15% Fodur I.e. we draw from a random distribution between 0 and
1. If number < =.85 it is a Gorun we give positive feedback (see
below). If number > 0.85, give incorrect feedback: it is a Fiso.  -
Blue egg = 65 % Fodur, 35% Gorun.

*** We need to counterbalance who gets red egg = 85% cue and who gets
    blue egg = 65% cue. Need to keep this assignment for the choice
    task too. Easiest is to have 2 versions of experiment, one in
    which red egg = 85% and one in which red egg = 65% feature (and
    vice versa with blue egg). Do the same for choice task, so we know
    which feature is 85% or 65% for each subject.

[ then next trial ]

- minimum number of trials: 400 maximum number of trials: 700 - 1000?
- I'd say 1000 max; if subject hasn't learned by then, give up on
- subject.  half of all trials have red egg, half of all trials have
- blue egg.  pseudorandom order of red vs. blue egg trials.  if
- subject has picked the most likely category for 200 consecutive
- trials, task finishes, we go onto the next block (e.g. auditory or
- cognitive, or end the learning task if those blocks have already
- been done).


AUDITORY:

1. play sound (sound 1 or sound 2) (1000 ms) 2. choice screen with 2
speaker symbols; play dragonsound 1 in left ear (Gorun sounds) and
dragonsound 2 in right ear (Fodur sounds). [ NOTE: maybe we can just
play high and low tone to symbolize Gorun and Fodur categories; only
sound 1 and sound 2 should be probabilistic dragon sounds. So the
dragon sounds are probabilistic; the tones represent 100% category.
Keep playing left and right ear sounds until subject has made a choice
3. Subject presses either Left or Right button; that side's speaker
symbol is "highlighted". (300 ms?)  4. Feedback screen: 500 ms: either
green check mark or red cross. Probabilistic feedback: sound 1 = Gorun
85% of the time, Fodur 15% of the time sound 2 = Fodur 65%, Gorun 35%
of the time.

Need to counterbalance whether sound 1 is 85% or 65% feature, across
subjects (to prevent low-level confounds such as one sound is easier
to hear than the other).

COGNITIVE (semantic).

1. show word (CARNIVORE or HERBIVORE) - (1000 ms) 2. choice screen
with words GORUN and FODUR left and right of fixation cross. No time
limit -- subject chooses Left or Right when ready.  3. Subject presses
Left or Right arrow button; that word is made BOLD FONT. (300 ms?)
4. Feedback screen: 500 ms: green check mark or red
cross. Probabilistic as above (85% and 65%; counterbalance which word
is which probability, across subjects).

The counter-balancing has to be for the 2 visual, 2 auditory, and 2
semantic features, i.e. best to have multiple versions of the training
task, for each counterbalancing. Same number of choice task versions,
keeping the same counterbalancing.

NOTE visual above is visual-visual probabilistic association (an egg
picture is associated with a particular "look" of dragon); auditory
training task is auditory-auditory probabilistic association
association (sound 1 or 2 is associated with fixed sound defining
Gorun or fixed sound defining Fodur). Cognitive/ semantic is word-word
associations.


CHOICE TASK:

remains identical to what we had before, except instead of visual
motion, ru/lu, and arithmetic stimuli, we now display: - red egg then
blue egg (random order) - sound 1 then sound 2 (random order) - word 1
then word 2 (random order)

together with the money amounts from before. I.e. just swap out the
visual, auditory and arithmetic stimuli with new stimuli.


Ideally we should make everything that can be made a variable a
parameter, including the actual high and low probabilities (i.e. we
might want to change 85% to 90% and 65% to 70%). I.e. let's not
hard-code the probabilities. I attach a text file of possible
parameters.

We should probably display the instruction text (see pdf) in German,
not English. For now, we can use the English text as a place holder. I
paste the text below.

Please let me know what you think, and how hard you think it would be
to implement the new training task!!! Thanks a lot!

Flavia




TEXT:

Visual instructions: In the land of Smorgur, there are two kinds of
dragon: Goruns and Fodurs. Goruns look more like a circle and Fodurs
look more like a figure 8.  Gorun and Fodur eggs are usually of
different color. However, some Gorun eggs look like Fodur eggs, and
some Fodur eggs look like Gorun eggs.  Your task is to learn THE MOST
LIKELY dragon category to which an egg belongs, even if sometimes an
identical-looking egg can be either a Gorun or Fodur egg.  Because
category membership is probabilistic, your answer cannot always be
100% correct. By picking the most likely category to which the egg
belongs, you can be correct most (but not all) of the time. The
following eggs are drawn at random from Gorun and Fodur eggs. Classify
each egg as either a Gorun or a Fodur egg.  When you have consistently
picked the most likely dragon for the last 200 trials, your learning
will be complete.  LEFT arrow = GORUN egg; RIGHT arrow = FODUR egg.


Auditory instructions: In the land of Smorgur, there are two kinds of
dragon: Goruns and Fodurs. Goruns and Fodurs make different kinds of
vocalizations. Goruns make roaring sounds whereas Fodur sounds are
more like a song. However, when Goruns and Fodurs are lonely, they
make other kinds of calls. Sometimes, a lonely Gorun will sound like a
lonely Fodur, and a lonely Fodur will sound like a lonely Gorun.  Your
task is to choose THE MOST LIKELY dragon category to which a call
belongs, even if sometimes an identical-sounding call will signal
either a Gorun or a Fodur.  Because category membership is
probabilistic, you answer cannot always be 100% correct. By picking
the most likely category to which the sound belongs, you can be
correct most (but not all) of the time. The following sounds are drawn
at random from Gorun and Fodur sounds. Classify each sound as either a
Gorun or a Fodur sound.  When you have consistently picked the most
likely dragon for the last 200 trials, your learning will be complete.
LEFT arrow = Gorun sound; RIGHT arrow = Fodur sound.

Cognitive instructions:

In the land of Smorgur, there are two kinds of dragon: Goruns and
Fodurs. Some dragons are carnivores and some dragons are herbivores.
Your task is to gure out if a carnivore or an herbivore is MOST LIKELY
a Gorun or Fodur.  Because category membership is probabilistic, you
answer cannot always be 100% correct. By picking the most likely
category to which a carnivore or herbivore belongs, you can be correct
most (but not all) of the time. The following carnivores and
herbivores are drawn at random from Gorun and Fodur dragons. Classify
each carnivore and each herbivore as either a Gorun or a Fodur.  When
you have consistently picked the most likely dragon for the last 200
trials, your learning will be complete.  LEFT arrow = Gorun; RIGHT
arrow = Fodur.]
